SSIS:
1.  Integration Services Overview
2.  Control Flow & Data Flow
3.  Variables, Parameters, Expressions
4.  Containers
5.  Troubleshooting SSIS
6.  Loading a Dimension Table
7.  Loading a Fact Table
8.  Deploying SSIS Packages
9.  Configuring for Portability
10. SSIS Server Executions
11. Auditing & Notification Framework 

Softwares:
1. Visual Studio - BIDS(2005, 2008, 2008R2)/SSDT(2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019)
2. SQL Server Management Studio - For administration and scheduling on SSIS

SSIS is an ETL/ELT tool. 
Extract   = Pull data out of one or more sources i.e. CRM, Sales, HR, Finance etc..
Transform = Apply business rules to the data. 
Load      = Send the final resulting data into a one common destination. 

Why SSIS?
1. Data Source Integration e.g. SQL Server, Oracle, .CSV, Excel 
2. Data Warehouse Ready
3. Data Cleansing - correcting bad data

SSIS use cases:
1. Data Flow - SCD: I need to load a data warehouse dimension table without duplicating data each time I run the load.
2. Data Flow - FTP: I need to download and load files from an FTP server. 
3. Data Flow - DQS: I have data quality problems when load state data from Customers (CA, ca, California)

Job Duties:
1. In charge of the overall data warehouse design
2. Develops the data loading process
3. Reposnsible for data cleansing and accuracy
4. Create analytical layer that business users interact with
5. Designs reports based on business user specification
6. Write formulas to store necessary calculations for the business
7. Create report delivery mechanisms to send report directly to users

Basic Terminology:
1. Package
   - The unit of work for SSIS. 
   - Any development done in SSIS is within what's known as a package.
2. Connection Manager
   - Stores the connection string information for your sources and destinations that will be used in a package.
3. Control Flow
   - The component of SSIS packages that controls the order of operations and flow of a package. 
   - There can be only one of these per package.
4. Tasks
   - These tells SSIS what operations to perform in the Control Flow. 
5. Precedence Constraints
   - A part of the Control Flow that directs movement between multiple Control Flow Tasks. 
6. Data Flow
   - This is one specific Task that coordinates data movement and transformations. 
   - This is generally where most ETL/ELT work is done. 
7. Transformations
   - Within a Data Flow transforms allow you to apply business rules to your data prior to loading it into a destination.
8. Event Handler
   - Component of SSIS that allows you to control what happens in the event of an error. 









 